gh-128844: Make `_Py_TryIncref` public as an unstable API. (#128926)
python/cpython: Doc/c-api/object.rst

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

.. c:function:: int PyUnstable_TryIncRef(PyObject *obj)

   Increments the reference count of *obj* if it is not zero.  Returns ``1``
   if the object's reference count was successfully incremented. Otherwise,
   this function returns ``0``.

   :c:func:`PyUnstable_EnableTryIncRef` must have been called
   earlier on *obj* or this function may spuriously return ``0`` in the
   :term:`free threading` build.

   This function is logically equivalent to the following C code, except that
   it behaves atomically in the :term:`free threading` build::

      if (Py_REFCNT(op) > 0) {
         Py_INCREF(op);
         return 1;
      }
      return 0;

   This is intended as a building block for safely dealing with unowned

>    references without the overhead of creating a :c:type:`!PyWeakReference`.

Reviewer: In C API docs the term `borrowed reference` is more common than `unowned reference`, can you use that? 

There's a glossary entry for it so it can be linked to that.

Author: I'll update the term, but I don't love the use of "borrowed reference" here. This seems different to me than the typical use of "borrowed reference" -- there's not a particular reference that's borrowed here. It's more like a building block for weak reference like objects without using `PyWeakReference`.

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/d95ba9fa1110534b7247fa2ff12b90e930c93256/Include/cpython/weakrefobject.h#L12

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

> .. c:function:: int PyUnstable_EnableTryIncRef(PyObject *obj)

Reviewer 2: Maybe void?

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

.. c:function:: int PyUnstable_TryIncRef(PyObject *obj)

   Increments the reference count of *obj* if it is not zero.  Returns ``1``
   if the object's reference count was successfully incremented. Otherwise,
   this function returns ``0``.

   :c:func:`PyUnstable_EnableTryIncRef` must have been called
   earlier on *obj* or this function may spuriously return ``0`` in the
   :term:`free threading` build.

   This function is logically equivalent to the following C code, except that
   it behaves atomically in the :term:`free threading` build::

      if (Py_REFCNT(op) > 0) {
         Py_INCREF(op);
         return 1;
      }
      return 0;

>    This is intended as a building block for safely dealing with
>    :term:`borrowed references <borrowed reference>` without the overhead of
>    creating a :c:type:`!PyWeakReference`.

Reviewer 3: I think this should use *weak reference*, as [a generic term](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weak_reference). The “without the overhead” note implies that we don't mean the concrete `PyWeakReference`.
“Borrowed reference” has a specific meaning in CPython (in particular, *obj* of `PyUnstable_TryIncRef` **is** a borrowed reference).
“Unowned reference” would, IMO, need a definition.

I'd also warn that you *typically* need to control the deallocator (both `TryIncRef` and `tp_dealloc` need the same lock). Is that correct?

```suggestion
   This is intended as a building block for managing weak references without the overhead of
   creating a :c:type:`!PyWeakReference`.
   Typically, correct use of this function requires support from *obj*'s
   deallocator (:c:member:`~PyTypeObject.tp_dealloc`).
```

---

[Here is a larger change](https://github.com/colesbury/cpython/compare/gh-1288440-try-incref...encukou:cpython:gh-1288440-try-incref), with an example adapted from the issue (itself based on `pybind11`). I personally didn't “get” the function before seeing the example, but I don't know if I'm the target audience. I'm also not sure if there are other use cases this doesn't cover.

Author: Thanks, I think this is better, especially with the example. I think we should also include the use of `PyUnstable_EnableTryIncref` in the example.

Reviewer 3: I've updated the branch.

      be immortal in another.

   .. versionadded:: next

.. c:function:: int PyUnstable_TryIncRef(PyObject *obj)

   Increments the reference count of *obj* if it is not zero.  Returns ``1``
   if the object's reference count was successfully incremented. Otherwise,
   this function returns ``0``.

   :c:func:`PyUnstable_EnableTryIncRef` must have been called
   earlier on *obj* or this function may spuriously return ``0`` in the
   :term:`free threading` build.

   This function is logically equivalent to the following C code, except that
   it behaves atomically in the :term:`free threading` build::

      if (Py_REFCNT(op) > 0) {
         Py_INCREF(op);
         return 1;
      }
      return 0;

   This is intended as a building block for managing weak references

>    without the overhead of a Python :c:type:`!PyWeakReference`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   without the overhead of a Python :ref:`weak reference object <weakrefobjects>`.

```
